In this lecture, we will install MySQL Workbench, which is a GUI based tool, graphical UI tool
to access My SQL server.
It is a client.
So search launch your browser and search for My SQL work bench.
Click on the downloads page, this guide here download My SQL Workbench again, it's the same process
you download a installer click on this here and you will get a installer once you have the installer.
It's a straightforward installation.
Double click on the installer run.
Click on next.
Choose the defaults, say, default here again, the complete version of it, say next install.
That will install it at the end of it, it will prompt you if you want to launch it.
While it finishes, there we go.
That was quick, so hit finish and you see here, launch My SQL workbench now.
Keep it selected finish.
There we go.
So there is our My SQL workbench, which makes it super easy to connect and work with MySQL server, and
you see here it gives as a default connection for the local machine.
So you can click on this.
You can add more connections by going here.
If we hit this plus button, you can even connect to the remote MySQL servers by simply providing a name
whatever name you want.
And then the IP address or the host machine and the port number
these machines can even be on the cloud.
Click on this, that will open up, it asks for the password, which you would have set earlier from
the MySQL installation test.
One, two, three, four is my password.
Hit ok, there we go.
So I have been playing around with that.
Let me clean that up.
It will open a Query window for you here.
You can create your databases and do whatever you want with the MySQL server.
So if you type in show data bases, show databases execute.
It will show you all the databases, these are the default databases.
Now you can create your own database using create database, give it a name My DB, for example.
Execute that they have new database before you go ahead and create the tables, we have to use that
database so use is the command use mydb.
Execute that.
And now we are inside that database.
You can see the output below here.
Next, the last one show tables.
Execute that right now, there are no tables, we will be creating the tables later on.
So in this lecture, we have successfully installed My SQL Workbench, which is a client tool to
connect to MySQL database.
You have opened up a query window and you have created your own database.